docs/modules/ROOT/pages/installation/iks.adoc, before:

[[installation-on-iks]]
= Installing Camel K on IBM Kubernetes Service (IKS)

This guide assumes you've already created an IBM Kubernetes cluster on https://cloud.ibm.com, also installed the https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cli-install-ibmcloud-cli[IBM Command line tool] and kubectl command

On the list of kubernetes clusters for you account, you need to select the cluster and copy the (_clusterId_) to add the cluster `ibmcloud ks cluster config --cluster <clusterid>`

After executing the configuration string, you should be able to execute:

```
kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
```
NOTE: IKS provide an internal container registry feature. Camel K is able to leverage that registry.

You could create a customized namespace on xref:installation/registry/icr.adoc[IBM container registry] in order to host your integration images.
please take note of the namespace and region created to configure them on the installation step.

You can now download *kamel* CLI tool the from https://github.com/apache/camel-k/releases[release page]
and put it on your system path.

After configure *kamel* CLI, you could start with the https://camel.apache.org/camel-k/latest/installation/installation.html#procedure[standard installation] or https://camel.apache.org/camel-k/latest/installation/installation.html#helm[installation via Helm].

Finally you are ready to work with Camel K.

Commit message:

chore: use cross references instead of absolute
When absolute links are used they are not checked at build time either
by xref-validator or the link checker. If content is moved or deleted
this leads to undetectable broken links on the website.

This changes found absolute links to `xref` links.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/installation/iks.adoc, after:

[[installation-on-iks]]
= Installing Camel K on IBM Kubernetes Service (IKS)

This guide assumes you've already created an IBM Kubernetes cluster on https://cloud.ibm.com, also installed the https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/cli?topic=cli-install-ibmcloud-cli[IBM Command line tool] and kubectl command

On the list of kubernetes clusters for you account, you need to select the cluster and copy the (_clusterId_) to add the cluster `ibmcloud ks cluster config --cluster <clusterid>`

After executing the configuration string, you should be able to execute:

```
kubectl get pods --all-namespaces
```
NOTE: IKS provide an internal container registry feature. Camel K is able to leverage that registry.

You could create a customized namespace on xref:installation/registry/icr.adoc[IBM container registry] in order to host your integration images.
please take note of the namespace and region created to configure them on the installation step.

You can now download *kamel* CLI tool the from https://github.com/apache/camel-k/releases[release page]
and put it on your system path.

After configure *kamel* CLI, you could start with the xref:installation/installation.adoc#procedure[standard installation] or xref:installation/installation.adoc#helm[installation via Helm].

Finally you are ready to work with Camel K.
