docs/traits.adoc, before:

[[traits]]
= Traits

Traits are high level named features of Camel K that can be enabled/disabled or configured to customize the
behavior of the final integration.

Camel K provide sensible defaults for all such traits, taking into account the details of the target platform where
the integration is going to run into. However, it's possible for a **expert user** to configure them in
order to obtain a different behavior.

== Configuration

Each trait has a unique ID that can be used to configure it using the command line tool.

E.g. in order to disable the creation of a Service for a integration, a user can execute:

```
kamel run --trait service.enabled=false file.groovy
```

The flag `--trait` can be also abbreviated with `-t`.

The `enabled` property is available on all traits and can be used to enable/disable them. All traits have their own
internal logic to determine if they need to be enabled when the user does not activate them explicitly.

All traits share also a `auto` property that can be used to enable/disable auto-configuration of the trait based on the
environment. The auto-configuration mechanism is able to enable/disable the trait when the `enabled` property is not explicitly
set by the user and also change the trait configuration. The `auto` property is enabled by default.

NOTE: Some traits are applicable only to specific platforms (see "profiles" in the table).

A trait may have additional properties that can be configured by the end user.

E.g. the following command configures the container `port` that should be exposed by the service:

```
kamel run --trait service.enabled=true --trait service.port=8081 file.groovy
```

Or the equivalent command (assuming that the service trait is enabled by auto-detection):

```
kamel run -t service.port=8081 file.groovy
```

NOTE: Enabling a trait does not force the trait to be activated, especially if the trait specific preconditions do not hold.
E.g. enabling the `route` trait while the `service` trait is disabled does not produce automatically a route, since a service is needed
for the `route` trait to work.

== Common Traits

The following is a list of common traits that can be configured by the end users:

[options="header",cols="1m,2,3a"]
|=======================
| Trait      | Profiles 				| Description

| dependencies
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Automatically adds dependencies required by the Camel routes by inspecting the user code.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default.

| deployment
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Creates a standard Kubernetes deployment for running the integration.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default on vanilla Kubernetes/Openshift profiles.

| knative
| Knative (Kubernetes, Openshift)
| Creates Knative resources to run the integration instead of the standard Kubernetes resources.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default when the Knative profile is active.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! knative.sources
! Configures a (comma-separated) list of channels to which the Knative service must be subscribed (to receive cloudevents from a channel).

!===

| istio
| Knative (Kubernetes, Openshift)
| Allows to configure outbound traffic for Istio.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default when the Knative profile is active.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! istio.allow
! Configures a (comma-separated) list of CIDR subnets that should not be intercepted by the Istio proxy (`10.0.0.0/8,172.16.0.0/12,192.168.0.0/16` by default).

!===

| service
| All (Knative in deployment mode)
| Exposes the integration with a Service resource so that it can be accessed by other applications (or integrations) in the same namespace.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default if the integration depends on a Camel component that can expose a HTTP endpoint.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! service.port
! To configure a different port exposed by the container (default `8080`).

!===

| route
| OpenShift
| Exposes the service associated with the integration to the outside world with a OpenShift Route.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default whenever a Service is added to the integration (through the `service` trait).

[cols="m,"]
!===

! route.host
! To configure the host exposed by the route.

!===

| ingress
| Kubernetes
| Exposes the service associated with the integration to the outside world with a Kubernetes Ingress.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default whenever a Service is added to the integration (through the `service` trait).

[cols="m,"]
!===

! ingress.host
! **Required**. To configure the host exposed by the ingress.

!===

| debug
| All
| Run the integration in debug mode (you can port-forward to port 5005 to connect)
  +
  +
  It's disabled by default.

| jolokia
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Activate and configures the Jolokia Java agent.
  +
  +
  It's disabled by default.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! jolokia.protocol
! The protocol to use, either `http` or `https` (default `https` for OpenShift)

! jolokia.host
! The Hostaddress to which the Jolokia agent should bind to. If `"\*"` or `"0.0.0.0"` is given, the servers binds to every network interface (default `"*"`).

! jolokia.port
! The Jolokia endpoint port (default `8778`).

! jolokia.user
! The user to be used for authentication

! jolokia.password
! The password used for authentication, applicable when the `user` option is set

! jolokia.discovery-enabled
! Listen for multicast requests (default `false`)

! jolokia.use-ssl-client-authentication
! Whether client certificates should be used for authentication (default `true` for OpenShift)

! jolokia.ca-cert
! The PEM encoded CA certification file path, used to verify client certificates, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.client-principal
! The principal which must be given in a client certificate to allow access to the Jolokia endpoint, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `clientPrincipal=cn=system:master-proxy` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.extended-client-check
! Mandate the client certificate contains a client flag in the extended key usage section, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `true` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.options
! A comma-separared list of additional Jolokia options as defined in https://jolokia.org/reference/html/agents.html#agent-jvm-config[JVM agent configuration options], e.g.: `keystore=...,executor=...`

!===

| prometheus
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Exposes the integration with a `Service` and a `ServiceMonitor` resources so that the Prometheus endpoint can be scraped.

WARNING: Creating the `ServiceMonitor` resource requires the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[Prometheus Operator] custom resource definition to be installed.
You can set `service-monitor` to `false` for the Prometheus trait to work without the Prometheus operator.

It's disabled by default.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! prometheus.port
! The Prometheus endpoint port (default `9778`).

! prometheus.service-monitor
! Whether a `ServiceMonitor` resource is created (default `true`).

! prometheus.service-monitor-labels
! The `ServiceMonitor` resource labels, applicable when `service-monitor` is `true`.

!===

|=======================


== Platform Traits (Advanced)

There are also platform traits that **normally should not be configured** by the end user. So change them **only if you know what you're doing**.

[options="header",cols="m,,"]
|=======================
| Trait      | Profiles 				| Description
| owner      | Kubernetes, OpenShift	| Makes sure that every resource created by the traits belongs to the integration custom resource (so they are deleted when the integration is deleted).
|=======================

Commit message:

Add labels trait to transfer integration labels onto owned resources
Fixes #263

docs/traits.adoc, after:

[[traits]]
= Traits

Traits are high level named features of Camel K that can be enabled/disabled or configured to customize the
behavior of the final integration.

Camel K provide sensible defaults for all such traits, taking into account the details of the target platform where
the integration is going to run into. However, it's possible for a **expert user** to configure them in
order to obtain a different behavior.

== Configuration

Each trait has a unique ID that can be used to configure it using the command line tool.

E.g. in order to disable the creation of a Service for a integration, a user can execute:

```
kamel run --trait service.enabled=false file.groovy
```

The flag `--trait` can be also abbreviated with `-t`.

The `enabled` property is available on all traits and can be used to enable/disable them. All traits have their own
internal logic to determine if they need to be enabled when the user does not activate them explicitly.

All traits share also a `auto` property that can be used to enable/disable auto-configuration of the trait based on the
environment. The auto-configuration mechanism is able to enable/disable the trait when the `enabled` property is not explicitly
set by the user and also change the trait configuration. The `auto` property is enabled by default.

NOTE: Some traits are applicable only to specific platforms (see "profiles" in the table).

A trait may have additional properties that can be configured by the end user.

E.g. the following command configures the container `port` that should be exposed by the service:

```
kamel run --trait service.enabled=true --trait service.port=8081 file.groovy
```

Or the equivalent command (assuming that the service trait is enabled by auto-detection):

```
kamel run -t service.port=8081 file.groovy
```

NOTE: Enabling a trait does not force the trait to be activated, especially if the trait specific preconditions do not hold.
E.g. enabling the `route` trait while the `service` trait is disabled does not produce automatically a route, since a service is needed
for the `route` trait to work.

== Common Traits

The following is a list of common traits that can be configured by the end users:

[options="header",cols="1m,2,3a"]
|=======================
| Trait      | Profiles 				| Description

| dependencies
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Automatically adds dependencies required by the Camel routes by inspecting the user code.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default.

| deployment
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Creates a standard Kubernetes deployment for running the integration.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default on vanilla Kubernetes/Openshift profiles.

| knative
| Knative (Kubernetes, Openshift)
| Creates Knative resources to run the integration instead of the standard Kubernetes resources.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default when the Knative profile is active.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! knative.sources
! Configures a (comma-separated) list of channels to which the Knative service must be subscribed (to receive cloudevents from a channel).

!===

| istio
| Knative (Kubernetes, Openshift)
| Allows to configure outbound traffic for Istio.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default when the Knative profile is active.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! istio.allow
! Configures a (comma-separated) list of CIDR subnets that should not be intercepted by the Istio proxy (`10.0.0.0/8,172.16.0.0/12,192.168.0.0/16` by default).

!===

| service
| All (Knative in deployment mode)
| Exposes the integration with a Service resource so that it can be accessed by other applications (or integrations) in the same namespace.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default if the integration depends on a Camel component that can expose a HTTP endpoint.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! service.port
! To configure a different port exposed by the container (default `8080`).

!===

| route
| OpenShift
| Exposes the service associated with the integration to the outside world with a OpenShift Route.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default whenever a Service is added to the integration (through the `service` trait).

[cols="m,"]
!===

! route.host
! To configure the host exposed by the route.

!===

| ingress
| Kubernetes
| Exposes the service associated with the integration to the outside world with a Kubernetes Ingress.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default whenever a Service is added to the integration (through the `service` trait).

[cols="m,"]
!===

! ingress.host
! **Required**. To configure the host exposed by the ingress.

!===

| debug
| All
| Run the integration in debug mode (you can port-forward to port 5005 to connect)
  +
  +
  It's disabled by default.

| jolokia
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Activate and configures the Jolokia Java agent.
  +
  +
  It's disabled by default.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! jolokia.protocol
! The protocol to use, either `http` or `https` (default `https` for OpenShift)

! jolokia.host
! The Hostaddress to which the Jolokia agent should bind to. If `"\*"` or `"0.0.0.0"` is given, the servers binds to every network interface (default `"*"`).

! jolokia.port
! The Jolokia endpoint port (default `8778`).

! jolokia.user
! The user to be used for authentication

! jolokia.password
! The password used for authentication, applicable when the `user` option is set

! jolokia.discovery-enabled
! Listen for multicast requests (default `false`)

! jolokia.use-ssl-client-authentication
! Whether client certificates should be used for authentication (default `true` for OpenShift)

! jolokia.ca-cert
! The PEM encoded CA certification file path, used to verify client certificates, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `/var/run/secrets/kubernetes.io/serviceaccount/ca.crt` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.client-principal
! The principal which must be given in a client certificate to allow access to the Jolokia endpoint, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `clientPrincipal=cn=system:master-proxy` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.extended-client-check
! Mandate the client certificate contains a client flag in the extended key usage section, applicable when `protocol` is `https` and `use-ssl-client-authentication` is `true` (default `true` for OpenShift).

! jolokia.options
! A comma-separared list of additional Jolokia options as defined in https://jolokia.org/reference/html/agents.html#agent-jvm-config[JVM agent configuration options], e.g.: `keystore=...,executor=...`

!===

| labels
| All
| Transfers labels on the integration onto the owned resources being created.
  +
  +
  It's enabled by default.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! labels.target-labels
! The labels to be transfered (A comma-separared list of label keys)

!===

| prometheus
| Kubernetes, OpenShift
| Exposes the integration with a `Service` and a `ServiceMonitor` resources so that the Prometheus endpoint can be scraped.

WARNING: Creating the `ServiceMonitor` resource requires the https://github.com/coreos/prometheus-operator[Prometheus Operator] custom resource definition to be installed.
You can set `service-monitor` to `false` for the Prometheus trait to work without the Prometheus operator.

It's disabled by default.

[cols="m,"]
!===

! prometheus.port
! The Prometheus endpoint port (default `9778`).

! prometheus.service-monitor
! Whether a `ServiceMonitor` resource is created (default `true`).

! prometheus.service-monitor-labels
! The `ServiceMonitor` resource labels, applicable when `service-monitor` is `true`.

!===

|=======================


== Platform Traits (Advanced)

There are also platform traits that **normally should not be configured** by the end user. So change them **only if you know what you're doing**.

[options="header",cols="m,,"]
|=======================
| Trait      | Profiles 				| Description
| owner      | Kubernetes, OpenShift	| Makes sure that every resource created by the traits belongs to the integration custom resource (so they are deleted when the integration is deleted).
|=======================
